We are the proponents of the Centralized Fire Emergency Alarm System.
The Centralized Fire Emergency Alarm System is a system that consists of a fire alarm system unit,
Graphic Monitor Center (GMC), and a detection - notification device. In this video, we will show 
you the diagram of the components of the Centralized Fire Emergency Alarm System.

The detection-notification unit has 4 main components: 
Flame sensor is used to detect fire source or other light sources of the wavelength in the range 
of 760nm - 1100 nm. It is based on the YG1006 sensor which is a high speed and high sensitive 
NPN silicon phototransistor. Due to its black epoxy, the sensor is sensitive to infrared radiation.

Gas sensor, useful for gas leakage and smoke detection. Detects flammable gases like Hydrogen, Methane, 
carbon Monoxide, and many others. Temperature and Humidity sensor. Temperature sensor range in the system
has a -40°C upto 125°C with a +0.3°C accuracy and the humidity sensor range has a 0% upto 100% relative 
humidity with +-2% accuracy.

Buzzer, the main component is the Piezo buzzer. The sound output of the buzz is less than or equal to 
85dB(decibel) and the resonant frequency is 2300+300Hz( hertz). All of the 3 sensors and piezo buzzer 
are used to create an effective and efficient detection - notification device  for the CFEAS.

The system unit of the Centralized Fire Emergency Alarm System. The system unit houses 11 Arduino Uno R3
with wifi shield and base shield connected to each one of the Arduino Uno R3 with 15 ports available
for each of the detectors and a power supply unit that powers the detectors and the Arduino boards.

Arduino Uno R3, is a microcontroller board based on the ATMega 328P, it will contain the general program 
of the sensors and processes of the sensors. Wifi shield allows the Arduino to connect to the network or 
the internet. Base shield is connected to the Arduino, it enables the Arduino to connect more sensors.

Graphic Monitor Center, an android application that has the following features

manage detectors, enable, disable, or test the detector.

Manage users – create, edit, and delete user accounts.

Types of users:
General user – can only receive the alarm and see the emergency zone. This user does not need log-in credentials
they only need to install the app, best for students, and guests.

Admin
manage detectors, manage users, edit automated sms alerts and so on. The university custodian, or emergency 
response team might be a moderator.

Moderator, can receive and respond to the emergency alarm, might be able to receive sms alerts. Manually reports 
fire if the detector isn’t working. Professors, and security personnel might have this account. 
Receives alarm notifications. Or manually set an alarm from the app, only if you have the permission

